The following are the transcripts of the interviews conducted with two thesis supervisors, a student, and the student service center regarding the process of thesis registration and submission at the Technical University of Munich, as well as the examination regulations set officially by the university and the Bavarian State Ministry.

Interview with First Supervisor:
[Interviewer] Hi, could you please walk me through the overall process of thesis registration and submission at your university?
[Supervisor 1] Yeah, well, practically there's two options. Each chair has published the thesis topics in the website. Otherwise, the students have an idea. For example, in the first scenario, when a topic is already published in the website, the students read this topic, the outcome of this topic. And if the student likes this topic, they will approach the chair. It could be directly to the professor or to the PhD students or postdocs for this. So there is an informal discussion by maybe an appointment, so to explain in detail the thesis topic to the student and see if the student likes this topic and the possible outcomes. In that case, the student starts to write the proposal if the chair requires it. The proposal is first reviewed by the advisor. And the advisor is, you know, the scientific person in the chair, which could be a PhD or a postdoc. If the proposal is good, this proposal is sent to the professor or the main person in the chair, and this person will be the examiner of the thesis. The examiner of the thesis is the person who puts the grade at the end. When the examiner approves this proposal, the proposal is saved for the chair locally somewhere. And the advisor uses the online platform Koinon, I think is the name. Then what the advisor does is practically register this new thesis on the platform. To register it on Koinon, you must submit a title, the information of the student, the information of the advisors, the examiner, and the date of starting the thesis. I think you can start any date. Then the student gets an email and the student approves the thesis. Then, the student service center also get an email where they check the ECTS. If the student has the minimum number of ECTS already passed, then they approve that the student can start the thesis. In this case, the student starts the thesis, starts to implement or develop or something. It is supposed that the student has a weekly meeting, at least weekly meeting with the advisor to check the development, implementation, and so on. And then, the advisor is who recommends if the thesis is finished or not, and also recommends the student to start writing or not. But the thesis has a duration of four months. The advisor is responsible for managing the presentation of the thesis, which is apart from the already fixed submission date, because the submission is one thing, and the presentation is another. And yeah, when the student is about to submit the thesis, the advisor has to manage this date for the presentation. That could be a couple of weeks after the submission, for example, or a couple of days after. Okay. When the thesis is submitted, the advisor suggests a grade to the examiner. There is a discussion between the examiner and the advisor or supervisor. And they define the grade of the thesis. And then the presentation is evaluated, of course, by the examiner and the advisor. Again, they discuss the presentation. The presentation is open, so anyone can attend on site and ask questions and so on. The time for that is around 30 minutes in total, 20 minutes for the presentation and 10 minutes for questions and answers. And then we have to submit the grade of the presentation also.
[Interviewer] Okay. Perfect. Then I'm just going to ask you a few questions about individual phases. So, for example, in the topic selection, you said it's either that the student has an idea or that they check the website. And then they have an informal discussion with the supervisor to explain the topic to the student. Correct? And then they do the proposal.
[Supervisor 1] Yes.
[Interviewer] So, is the informal discussion mandatory? Or is it just what you do at your chair or what the supervisors usually do?
[Supervisor 1] I think it's not mandatory by the university, but it's necessary and what the supervisors usually do. Because the student has to be convinced about the topic. Okay. And the supervisor has to figure out if the student likes the topic and if the student understands the outcome of the topic. So, it's not mandatory, but it's necessary.
[Interviewer] Yeah. And the proposal, do all the other chairs do a proposal? Or is it up to the chair to decide if they need a proposal or not?
[Supervisor 1] It is up to each chair to decide if they require a propsal or not. Each chair has a different template or different requirements for a proposal. Some chairs include background, others call it context or related work. Okay. But the typical thing is that a proposal has a motivation, background, maybe explain a little bit the methodology, the expected results, and, of course, the references. I think that's the minimum thing that a proposal has. So it depends on the chairs.
[Interviewer] Okay, perfect. So let's say now that the student and the supervisor both agree, they either write a proposal if it's required or they do not if it's not required, and now the advisor uses Koinon to register the thesis.
[Supervisor 1] Yes.
[Interviewer] So it's not possible to register the thesis before checking the credits, correct? If they do not meet the minimum requirement, then they cannot register the thesis online.
[Supervisor 1] Yeah, this is true, the student needs to have a minimum amount of ECTS before registering the thesis, 150 I think, which would be check by the Student Service Center
[Interviewer] Okay. And is it possible to theoretically, let's say the student is facing some delays in their registration, could they start working on their thesis before being registered? And then later after being registered, just use whatever they wrote as a starting point or is that not allowed?
[Supervisor 1] So the thing is, the thesis is supposed to be four months, but of course the student can begin working before being registered, but it is not how it is supposed to happen. Usually the proposal should be very realistic in terms of being able to finish the thesis in four months. So the student doesn't have to study in advance. But there isn't anything that strictly forbids the student from starting in advance.
[Interviewer] So once the student starts writing the thesis, then you have the weekly meetings. Is that mandatory by the university or is it just what your chair does?
[Supervisor 1] The university mandates 0.2 semester weekly hours for the bachelor thesis which represents maybe 10 minutes or so per week. I don't know. Yeah. So it's mandatory to have these ten minutes, but it's not realistic because a bachelor thesis student didn't write a thesis before, so they are learning, they have several mistakes and so on. So what the supervisors usually do is to have the longer weekly meetings with the bachelor students.
[Interviewer] Okay. And has your department maybe or chair regulated any other specific procedures for this phase or is it only the weekly meetings?
[Supervisor 1] We didn't establish any rules, honestly, as a chair. Yeah. That depends how you, how each scientific person or PhD student or postdoc organizes it with the student.
[Interviewer] Okay, perfect. And once the student finishes their writing phase, what is the procedure exactly for submitting the completed thesis?
[Supervisor 1] Practically, the student is who submits the thesis. Uploads the document in Koinon. And after it's submitted, then the supervisor and examiner discuss the grade.
[Interviewer] And before the student submits, does the supervisor need to approve that the student is allowed to submit it?
[Supervisor 1] Okay, but it's not like absolutely necessary as in that they cannot submit it on the portal without the supervisor approving it, it doesn't say, like, I have to click something before or nothing. But the best practice is to review the document with the advisor before, otherwise, the grade will be bad.
[Interviewer] And to set the grade, is there any reason you have to discuss is with the examiner? Is it mandatory by the university that the examiner has to give the grade?
[Supervisor 1] It's mandatory by the university that the examiner has to be a professor. And that's why I cannot provide a grade without talking with the examiner, because they are who puts the grade. They have to agree with my suggestion. The examiner is the only one available or the only one allowed to publish the grade.
[Interviewer] Perfect. And so once the student submits the thesis, you have the colloquium, but it's mandatory to have the colloquium after the submission, correct?
[Supervisor 1] Yes, it is mandated by the university's examination regulations that the colloquium must happen after the thesis is submitted.

Interview with Second Supervisor:
[Interviewer] So, could you walk me through the overall process of thesis registration and submission at your university?
[Supervisor 2] Ok, at the beginning we have some instructions on our website where we post the topics that we have in our chair. The student normally should submit their motivation letter, an application, a CV to an email address regarding a thesis. The responsible person check if this topic is already taken by one of the students or if we have a capacity, then forward the email to the responsible person. The responsible person check the CV and decide if he has a capacity, for example, and if he would like to set the, let's say, get together first meeting with the student. Normally, from my point of view, this meeting is just to give us as a supervisor an overview and impression about the students. Like how he deals with the get together meeting, if he is taking notes while I'm talking about the topic that I have, how is his personality, if he came, for example, on time. Normally, I do ask questions related to the topic because I would like to have a student who has a background so he can just follow and do the topic properly. If the student managed to answer the questions and if he shows some commitments, came on time, we give him a chance to start writing an exposé. Normally, from my side, after this meeting, if everything going well, I just share with the student some resources just to enrich his knowledge about information about that topic. Then I set a meeting one week after where I explain in details the topic. I do this because I prefer a student to read first about the resources, know more about the topic. Then when I explain what should be done, he can easily follow the topic. After that, students start with writing the exposé. Till now, I have one student who almost finished this phase, which is writing and submitting the exposé. Honestly, from my side, I support the students a lot during writing the exposé because it's a very important phase where students can plan exactly what to do, where to start, what is the plan, what is the objective, and provide a good understanding, for example, to the topic itself. Normally, I ask the student to start writing the exposé. If he or she has any question, he can write an email. Normally, after two weeks, even if he did not ask for a meeting, I ask for a meeting just to follow up the status. Know if the student could manage to do something, if he needs any help, because from our experience, normally the student, I would say, tries to ask questions, or maybe they have a question, but they try to ask for meetings or something like this. After that, the student submits, let's say, the first version of the exposé. We provide our feedback. This process is an iterative process. Till now, with one student, I have a fourth version of the exposé. Till we reach to a position where I feel, yes, all the necessary information is there, that the students have a good understanding where to start, when to start, how to follow. After that, as I know, the Professor should also have a final check on the exposé and provide her approval. After that, the student can register officially for the thesis and start working with the thesis. Honestly, I did not try also, I'm not in the phase where the students already start the thesis, but as I know that there should be meetings with the supervisor, maybe after every two weeks, one hour, something like this, where we can follow up with the progress and so on.
[Interviewer] Okay, and then after they finish writing, the student submits the thesis online? Or how does the submission work?
[Supervisor 2] It could be online, yes. Online. And for the presentation, it depends. Some of the students do the final presentation online and some of them do the presentation on-site. From our side, we prefer the on-site presentation, but sometimes it happens for special circumstances or sometimes because we supervise also students from Garching, so they are not in Heilbronn. That's why we offer the online presentation, let's say.
[Interviewer] Okay, and now we will just maybe go through the phases or the main stages and just ask you a couple of questions about the activities. So, during the process of the topic selection, you mentioned that there are topics on the websites and the student submits the CV and cover letter. Is this a mandatory requirement by the university to do it this way, or is it just how your chair does it?
[Supervisor 2] To be honest, I'm not sure, so I do not know. But from my point of view, if the student has a choice to select among several topics, the student definitely will go with a topic where he or she feels that it's more related to or has more background about. So, I believe it's a good strategy, if you are asking my opinion, because the students have a choice to choose, and if it's related to the university requirement, I have no idea.
[Interviewer] Okay, but usually it's not mandatory for them to check the website. They can just email you about the topics, or is there like an informal way of doing it?
[Supervisor 2] Normally, the student should check the website and select the topics. Otherwise, sometimes the student sends an email in general, I would like to write my thesis at your chair, if there is any spot or any capacity, and then we answer him if we have any spot or capacity.
[Interviewer] Okay, and what role did you play in the approving of the topic, in this case, for the student you have? Did you have any specific role during the refining and the approving of the topic?
[Supervisor 2] Honestly, normally the topics are provided by us, by me, so I have a topic that I would like one of the students to work on it, and as I mentioned, during the get-to-know meeting, I just check the student's requirement, like in a way, to know if he suits well to start working on the topic that I have.
[Interviewer] Okay, and you mentioned a couple of meetings as well, where you have a meeting to get an idea of the student, and then a meeting one week later, if you like the student, to give him resources and so on. Are these mandated by the professor, or is it just how you like to do it?
[Supervisor 2] It's made by me.
[Interviewer] Okay, and do you maybe know if the other supervisors in your chair or in other chairs also do the same meetings, or is it not that common?
[Supervisor 2] I know that there is a get-to-know meeting, but I don't know exactly what's going on during this get-to-know meeting with others, but I know that because we have this common rule about giving priority for students from Heilbronn and Master's students. This is common between us, but I'm not sure how things are going with the get-to-know meeting.
[Interviewer] Okay, then I think we're good for the topic selection phase. For the registration, do you know what the specific steps may be that are involved in the registration of the thesis, or are you not that aware of it?
[Supervisor 2] I know recently that the student should check if they are able to register for the thesis by the student service center. Maybe it's something related to the credit points, if they finish an amount of credit points before they start with the thesis, I know this. And I already informed students, before you start writing even the exposé, just go and double-check your status at the student service center.
[Interviewer] Okay, so they cannot start with the thesis or officially register until they have a specific amount of points?
[Supervisor 2] Yes, I knew this recently, honestly, but I informed all my students that they have to do that before they start with registering the exposé. We did not discuss this, but I think we have a proposal that we let all the students check their status before they start with the exposé. Because in the worst-case scenario, if he spent a lot of time, and we spent a lot of time just preparing the exposé, then we discover that the student is not able to write or to start or to register for the thesis, so it just will be a waste of time. So we have a proposal that everyone just apply to start his or to write his thesis with us, we just ask him to double-check his status, then we can start with the exposé, let's say.
[Interviewer] Okay, and do you know maybe if there is any problems during registration, can the students begin already writing it until they get registered, or do they have to be registered to start writing and start researching?
[Supervisor 2] Honestly, I have no idea.
[Interviewer] Okay, no problem. So do you have maybe any deadlines or time constraints during the registration process? Registration, maybe, as I mentioned... Or during the topic selection as well?
[Supervisor 2] It's not the topic selection, but normally I give the students four weeks after the meeting where I explain the topic to him or her. During these four weeks, they have to provide me with at least the first draft of the exposé, and it should be, let's say, more than 50% were written, otherwise we do reject the exposé and the student's application.
[Interviewer] Okay, and just one more thing to confirm in the topic selection phase, so for the thesis to be officially registered, does the professor need to approve of it, or do you only need to approve of it, the supervisor?
[Supervisor 2] Both.
[Interviewer] Both, okay. So if the professor rejects it, they cannot proceed with the...
[Supervisor 2] Yes, definitely. But normally we have a flexibility, I don't care, but also feedback from the professor is also taken into consideration even with the exposé phase. For example, if the professor sees any points should be added, modified, her notes are taken into consideration, definitely.
[Interviewer] Okay, perfect. And so I know maybe you don't know that much about it because you still are not in that phase, but once the student registers the thesis, do you know maybe the main activities involved with the writing and the research process?
[Supervisor 2] Yeah, yeah, okay, I see. Honestly, because I did not start with this phase yet, but during the previous two months I took a course guiding on how to supervise students and my strategy, but I did not apply yet, but I will apply. Okay. Because I had first a problem, how can I balance between supporting the student and at the same time not doing his work. Okay. Because sometimes you need to balance, you need to support, but it's his responsibility, you cannot do his work. Okay. My strategy is that if two weeks I will give a student one hour where he can ask to support in any topic he would like about how to write, about how to present, about the progress itself, anything he would like. So it's his responsibility, this meeting, to collect and make a priority for the question that he has. If he take this one hour, take the chance to ask, then he will manage to follow and do his thesis. If not, and during this one hour I will give the full support. Any question he asks, I will not say no, it's your task, any question come to his mind about progress, sometimes programming, writing, presentation, it's his time. Yeah. He can ask what he would like to ask, but after this hour, because I have other responsibilities, I have other students, I would not give time. Okay. Maybe my strategy is to support as I can during the exposé, so he knows exactly or have something written with steps, I will start with one, two, three, even the exposé or the proposal could be somehow refined by finding or something like this, but at least it's the base. Okay. But my strategy, as I mentioned, this hour you can ask what you would like to ask, after this hour, definitely I can support, I will not answer any question, but I will not give the full support as I just gave during this one.
[Interviewer] Okay, yeah. And this one hour is more of your strategy, not an established procedure, the department maybe or the chair or the university?
[Supervisor 2] To be honest, during this course, I have asked about how to manage, and this approach was one of the proposals which I liked and I felt it's fair enough. And if the students, for example, ask for one and a half hour, I can give, but at least something fixed and he or she should take the responsibility of managing, working and so on.
[Interviewer] Okay. And do you know maybe then after the student finishes writing the thesis and then submits it, do you know how it is evaluated?
[Supervisor 2] I have no idea how it's evaluated here, but maybe I can answer you from the course I have. Because normally with the thesis, it's not one person who evaluates the thesis, but maybe more than one, especially that we have proper files, so it's not our decision alone. And because me as a supervisor, who is following the students, so sometimes I have, I will be somehow, I will not say biased, but I know how the student is working. And sometimes the students fail to represent their results or work or writing. So the process is to make criteria where we specify exactly how the points should be distributed. For example, in the writing, is the contribution, for example, clear? I will give points for that. I'm planning that I will put a proposal for this criteria, discuss this with the Professor. Once we agree, before we receive the submission from the student in order not to be biased with him, then we will apply this criteria on his proposal.
[Interviewer] Okay. Great. Then can you provide maybe a typical timeline for the entire thesis process from registration and then until the submission and evaluation?
[Supervisor 2] As I know that the students, the bachelor students have, I think, four months to finish their thesis. And recently I knew from Christian that after they submit the thesis, we can ask them for final presentation. So after that, so they have four months to work and write and submit. And after that, we have two months after four months to set up a meeting for final presentation and make a grading and so on. And evaluate the thesis, the writing.
[Interviewer] Okay, so all in all about six months.
[Supervisor 2] Yes.

Interview with Student:
[Interviewer] So, could you please walk me through the overall process of thesis registration and submission at your university?
[Student] So, as you know, we have to do the thesis after our final exam, and for that I chose my supervisor that I was previously working for as a working student. I asked him about a hot topic, what is they currently working on, and if they has some topics in mind. they provided many of them, one of them was the alignment with EU taxonomy and business process management concepts, and I found that one of the most interesting since sustainability is very important right now, I said what a nice initiative, and since nobody has done this research, I said, okay, let me be the first one. So, then I proceeded with, you know, reading stuff, getting to know what's going on, and then as a part of the chair's application, you have to write an exposé. It took me, I guess, one month to write the exposé, and afterwards, I presented to my supervisor and the professor. Should I say names?
[Interviewer] No, let's keep it anonymous.
[Student] Okay, then upon presenting the exposé, then there's a discussion, maybe addressing some risks, addressing some outcomes, and after that, they should register you for your thesis. However, with my thesis, there were problems, and I couldn't be registered in such a prompt time, and there was a big delay due to a problem with the university's system. Luckily, that got resolved, but the advice was that I can still start writing my thesis, even though I am not registered, so that wouldn't affect anything. So, the only thing is that you must be registered for your thesis in order to upload it or submit it, so that was the only concern, but of course, later on the problem was resolved, I got registered for my thesis. For writing your thesis, you have four months. Currently, I have one left. I would say that first, in the exposé, you write which methodologies will you use, so that afterwards you use it for your thesis. I did literature research a lot, since my thesis has to do with taxonomy and regulations, and then I proceeded with writing introduction, background. It is very convenient, because you have all of the support from your supervisor, and if you get stuck somewhere, or if you have questions, they always have an answer, or if they don't have a clear answer, they could always advise you to appropriate literature, so you can kind of also find the answer on your own, but you get the right direction. Also, while you actually don't need to have very regular meetings with your supervisor, but I chose to have them every two weeks, and people usually prefer to have them at least once a week before submitting the thesis, but that is, of course, your choice. I forgot to mention that the exposé serves as a contract between you and your supervisor, and your professor, that you actually follow what you've written in the exposé, and that you will not deviate that much. Obviously
[Interviewer] Perfect, let us just to go through the steps maybe a bit now, so you start first with the topic selection.
[Student] Yes.
[Interviewer] What role does the supervisor play in refining or approving the topic? Was your supervisor very interactive in the process of choosing the topic, or were you more or less the one deciding?
[Student] I would say the decision was fully mine, so I picked the topic, but what my supervisor did was that they offered many topics that they can assist me on, in which they had specialized knowledge in. Particularly for my supervisor the topic was sustainability with business process management, and so they offered the topic, let me do a little bit of research, and then tell them which topic would suit me most. So they gave me freedom to explore. Also, they said that I can also find something on my own, and then also discuss it with them, so they can check or see if they're eligible or able to assist me.
[Interviewer] And are you aware of any regulation that you have to adhere to during the topic selection phase or was it more flexible?
[Student] It was flexible
[Interviewer] Okay, and then after you choose a topic, you have the proposal or exposé phase.
[Student] Yes.
[Interviewer] So for the proposal, you mentioned that you do not actually have to write a proposal, it was something set by the chair, or was it something mandated by the university in general?
[Student] I guess it is not mandated because I have a few friends that did their theses with other chairs and did not need to write an exposé before registering their thesis.
[Interviewer] Okay, so it's common to do this across faculties and chairs at least but not absolutely required.
[Student] Yes.
[Interviewer] And did you have any deadlines or time constraints for the proposal or not?
[Student] No, there was not a set deadline, but I will explain the process. So I had an intermediate meeting with my supervisor on how am I doing on the exposé, and to ask them if something is not clear, or if I'm stuck somewhere, and then we had a meeting with my professor plus my supervisor, and by this date, it was expected that I have my exposé ready. So I could say that it was not a very strict date, because it's a meeting.
[Interviewer] Great, so once you're registered, what main activities did you have during the thesis research and writing phase?
[Student] So, for my topic, first I had to delve into the taxonomy, so all of the laws and regulations that determine how companies should do sustainability reporting. So I wasn't dealing a lot with research papers, I was dealing with regulations, and trying to get the entities and the constraints for my metamodel. So I had to take everything from the taxonomy. Then I proceeded with a conceptualization of BPM man practices, ontologies, metamodels that represent business activities through business process management practices, and then I tried also to, let's say, reuse concepts from many papers, so that I can get my view for BPMN, or BPM actually, BPM, my mistake. And having those two models, now I'm trying to see where they overlap, and I guess I will try to make a third model, I still don't know how, but I guess now I want to actually do the alignment, discover where do they differ. Until now, my most valid finding is that they differ in waste management, so business process management from the side of businesses doesn't care about, let's say, waste, on the other hand, eu taxonomy cares about waste, so that I can say that it's a very big difference.
[Interviewer] So, while you're doing the research and writing, does your chair have any established or specific procedures for this phase, or not?
[Student] It's common that all supervisors have a regular weekly or bi-weekly meetings, but it's not a university rule, it's just what the supervisors usually do so that you are at pace for your thesis.
[Interviewer] Okay, so let's say that you now finished your thesis writing, and you want to submit the thesis, what do you have to do exactly?
[Student] So there's this platform where they register us for our theses, you have to go in the platform, and you simply submit your thesis digitally.
[Interviewer] Okay, and do you know how it is evaluated?
[Student] As far as I know, I believe that my supervisor will grade my thesis.
[Interviewer] Okay, but to submit the thesis, you must be registered for it, correct?
[Student] Yes, correct. So you can write the thesis without being registered, but in order to submit it, you must be registered.

Interview with Student Service Center:
[Interviewer] Hi, could you please walk me through the overall process, the general steps, of thesis registration and submission at your university?
[Student Service Center] Yes, so the reporting of the thesis is carried out in a multi-level system. So the first point is that the students search for topics and do a consultation with the chair or with the professor in person or via email. And then, if the chair agrees about the topic, there will be the registration of the topic for the thesis via the CIT portal, so by the chair. So the chair will register the student via Koinon portal, and after that the student has to confirm the thesis via Koinon too. Then we, the Student Service Center, will receive an email from Koinon in which it is written that a student registered a topic, and that they will need the confirmation from us. So then we will go to Koinon portal to accept the thesis, and from that moment, the student officially has four months time to upload the thesis. After the submission of the thesis, the chair has a maximum of two months' time to correct the thesis. And after that they will, I think, grade the thesis via Koinon portal. What I maybe missed at the beginning is that before the student is registered in Koinon and before talking to the chair, the student service center suggests that they come to our consultation hour, or to write us an email and ask if it's okay to apply for the thesis in Koinon. And the reason for that is that we check if the students have enough credits to be able to finsih the mandatory courses and the thesis in four months. Because the extension of the thesis is not very easy and is not done by us but from the administration. So before coming to that point, we would like to check before. If the student is still missing, I don't know, four mandatory courses, we wouldn't suggest to start with the thesis. If they are just missing one elective, or support elective, or some of them, then we will say of course, it's not a problem.
[Interviewer] Okay, so then maybe we can discuss the registration and the topic selection process. So what exactly are the regulations that you have to adhere to in this stage before you can register the student, and before you can approve that they begin their thesis?
[Student Service Center] Yes, so actually the rules is that all of the courses in on the bachelor have to be done, like, have to be finished and have to be passed. And the only things that is remain is the bachelor thesis and colloquium. Okay. That is what is also written in the examination regulations.
[Interviewer] So it is also possible to start writing your thesis before you're officially registered in the system?
[Student Service Center] Yes. Because we cannot really prove that. Like, if someone want already to start to write the thesis, or to search in for topics, or to talk with the chairs. But officially the process should be that is in these four months you have the time to search the topics, to write the thesis, and to upload the thesis. Okay. But of course you don't have to do it in these four months, we don't have like, a controlling system. You can do it also before, and then upload after you're in Koinon.
[Interviewer] Okay, perfect, and do you know maybe if the other student services in other schools of the university do it the same way, or is it just something you follow, or a procedure that you established within your place?
[Student Service Center] So the minimum ECTS are mandated by the University for everyone and all majors, but the suggestion to visit us is established by our department since the major does not have many students. However, other departments may not allow this consultation session
[Interviewer] Great. Okay, so the chair puts the thesis on Koinon, the student and the student services approves it, and then they begin working. And for the research phase, how much time are they officially allowed?
[Student Service Center] So they have four months' time, like officially, to search for topics and write a thesis and upload the thesis.
[Interviewer] Okay, and during this phase, does the student services have any part in it, or are you not involved?
[Student Service Center] No, we are not involved.
[Interviewer] Okay, and once the student finishes the thesis, then they would submit it again on Koinon. Do you as the student service center have to approve the submission, or is it only done by the supervisor?
[Student Service Center] No, we don't have any part in that.
[Interviewer] Okay, and you said so the supervisor or the chair has a maximum of two months to correct and grade the thesis?
[Student Service Center] Maximum two months, yeah.
[Interviewer] Okay, and do they also do that via Koinon?
[Student Service Center] I think so, yes.

Examination Regulations by the University and the Bavarian State Ministry:
General Academic and Examination Regulations (APSO) of the Technical University of Munich:
§18 Thesis
(1)
- The thesis is part of the final examination and is a module.
- Participation in a supplementary colloquium, a supplementary course, or defense can take place either within the “Thesis” module or in a supplementary module.
- The student must be enrolled in the respective program at the Technical University of Munich from the start of the thesis work until submission.
- The thesis is: in the bachelor’s program, the Bachelor’s Thesis; in the master’s program, the Master’s Thesis.

(2)
- The thesis should demonstrate that the student is capable of independently working on a task using scientific methods.
- It may also be approved as a group project if the topic is suitable, provided that the contribution to be graded as part of the examination is individually attributable.
- Individual attribution should be made based on objective criteria allowing clear delineation, for example by specifying sections, page numbers, or key content areas.
- The topic must be such that it can be completed within the specified timeframe.

(3)
- The FPSOs (Program-Specific Examination and Study Regulations) regulate the date of the thesis issuance.

(4)
- The thesis can be issued and supervised by any qualified examiner at the Technical University of Munich.
- Approval is granted by the chair of the examination committee.
- With the consent of the chair of the examination committee, the thesis may be completed at an external institution if it can be supervised by an examiner from the Technical University of Munich.

(5)
- If a student has unsuccessfully attempted to obtain a topic for the thesis at the scheduled time, the chair of the examination committee will ensure, upon request, that a topic is assigned.

(6)
- The FPSOs regulate the deadline for submitting the thesis to the examination committee.
- If the first submission deadline cannot be met for reasons beyond the student’s control, the examination committee will extend the processing time by a maximum of half of the original timeframe, provided the student applies before the first submission deadline and the topic issuer agrees.
- If the student provides a medical certificate proving that they are unable to work on the thesis due to illness, the processing time will be paused.

(7)
- The topic of a thesis can be returned only once for valid reasons and with the consent of the examination committee within the first third of the processing time.
- In the case of a repeated thesis, the return of the topic is only permissible if the student did not exercise this option during their first thesis.

(8)
- The thesis can be written in German or English.
- The examination committee may allow the use of another language, provided that the expert evaluation according to paragraph 11 is ensured.

(9)
- Upon submission of the thesis, the student must declare that they have independently written the thesis and have used no sources or aids other than those indicated.
- The thesis must be submitted to the examination committee in electronic form.
- Contrary to the second sentence, the examination committee is authorized to require submission in another form.

(10)
- The date of the thesis issuance and submission must be recorded by the examination committee.

(11)
- The thesis is generally to be graded by the thesis issuer within two months.
- Theses that are to be graded as failed must be assessed by a second examiner.
- The grades of both examiners are averaged and adjusted to the grading scale of § 17 paragraphs 1 and 2, with the average rounded to the nearest grade on the scale.
- If the average is equidistant between two grades, it is rounded up to the higher grade.

(12)
- If, according to the relevant FPSO, additional examinations are required alongside the thesis within the module, the module grade is calculated as a weighted average of all examination grades required in the module.
- The weight of each examination grade corresponds to the assigned credits.
- § 17 paragraph 1 sentence 4 applies accordingly.

Academic and Examination Regulations (FPSO) for the Bachelor’s Program in Information Engineering at the Technical University of Munich:
§ 46 Bachelor’s Thesis
(1)
- In accordance with § 18 of the General Academic and Examination Regulations (APSO), students must complete a Bachelor's Thesis as part of their Bachelor's examination.
- The Bachelor's Thesis can be assigned and supervised by qualified examiners from the Faculty of Informatics at the Technical University of Munich (the topic supervisor).
- The qualified examiners mentioned in sentence 2 are appointed by the examination board.

(2)
- The completion of the Bachelor's Thesis module should generally be the final examination requirement.
- Upon request, students may be admitted to the Bachelor's Thesis earlier if the goal of the thesis, according to § 18, paragraph 2 of APSO, can be achieved in consideration of the student's academic progress.

(3)
- The time from the assignment to the submission of the Bachelor's Thesis must not exceed four months.
- The Bachelor's Thesis will be considered failed if it is not submitted within the deadline without recognized valid reasons according to § 10, paragraph 7 of APSO.
- Upon successful completion, 12 credits are awarded for the Bachelor's Thesis, corresponding to nine weeks of full-time work.

(4)
- If the Bachelor's Thesis is not graded at least “sufficient” (4.0), it may be repeated once with a new topic.
- Re-registration for the Bachelor's Thesis must occur no later than six weeks after notification of the result.

§ 46a Bachelor Colloquium
(1)
- Students are considered registered for the Bachelor Colloquium once they have successfully completed their Bachelor's Thesis in the Information Engineering degree program.
- The examination should take place no later than two months after the registration date mentioned in sentence 1.
- Upon request, students may conduct the Bachelor Colloquium before submitting their Bachelor's Thesis.

(2)
- The Bachelor Colloquium is conducted by the topic supervisor of the Bachelor's Thesis and an expert assessor.

(3)
- Upon request, students may hold the Bachelor Colloquium in either German or English.

(4)
- The Bachelor Colloquium typically lasts 30 minutes. Students are given approximately 15 minutes to present their Bachelor's Thesis. This is followed by a defense that extends from the thesis topic to related subject areas.

(5)
- The Bachelor Colloquium is successfully passed if it is graded at least “sufficient” (4.0). If the Bachelor Colloquium is not passed, § 24, paragraph 7 of APSO applies.

(6)
- Three credits are awarded for the Bachelor Colloquium.