Examples:
What is the relationship between [Find a topic] and [Write and submit proposal]?
A closer look at the activities reveals that submitting a proposals requires to have a topic to write about. A proposal is defined as a description of a specific topic including motivation, problem statement, and approach to solve the identified research problem. The first activity of finding a topic is also dealing with researching the topic. We can conclude that there is a relation between these two activities based on a common data which is the topic. We check whether it is possible to write a proposal about a specific topic without having a topic found, so we switch the order of activities and question it. Here it is clear that this is not possible. We classify the relationships as a law of nature. As a next step, we check whether one of the other categories fit. First, the ordering of the activities is not mandated or enforced by a governmental institution, thus it cannot be a governmental law. Otherwise it should be at least stated in the regulations of the university. Nevertheless, we can argue that finding a topic before writing a proposal is a good start for writing a thesis. If a student finds the topic him or herself, the chances to succeed are higher. The chair usually wants the student to be able to work independently and only with a supervision that takes place from time to time. The student needs to be an expert, so it can be true that the chair also enforces this. The chair wants that the topic aligns with the research interests of the group and to not waste time with a proposal that does not have a clear topic, the topic should be found and defined in advance. So, we can classify it also as a business rule. 

What is the relationship between [Conduct topic-introduction meeting] and [Start writing]?
To classify the given relationship between "Conduct topic-introduction meeting" and "Start writing" we check the interviews again and search for relevant information related to these activities. Based on the interview with the supervisor, who mentioned that while the introductory meeting is not mandatory by the university or the examination regulation, it is considered necessary by the chair and commonly practiced by the thesis supervisors. This could indicate both a business rule and a best practice. Since most of the chairs require an initial meeting with the student before the thesis can be written, we classify it as a business rule. For a best practice, the chair should not give any recommendations regarding the ordering. There is no indication that this relationship is due to a law of nature, as there is no inherent data, resource, or logical dependency that would prevent the second activity from preceding the first.

What is the relationship between [Conduct topic-introduction meeting] and [Find a topic]?
We check the activities and the actual tasks that are performed. Finding a topic means that you have a good research topic. In the introduction meeting the topic is discussed with the supervisor. We can infer that a supervisor is usually interested in supervising topics that related to his or her research field. With an introductory meeting, they can ensure that the topic aligns very well. Because this is entirely up to the supervisor and is not enforced by the chair or the Bavarian state, we can classify it as a best practice. For a law of nature, we check if there are any data or resource dependencies but this is not the case. So we do not classify it as a law of nature.

What is the relationship between [Write and submit proposal] and [Get registered by chair]?
The given ordering between "Write and submit proposal" and "Get registered by chair" is because the proposal requirement is set by each chair and not by the University, indicating that it is under the full jurisdiction of the chair, a stakeholder in the process. We cannot find any statement regarding the submission of proposals in the examination regulations. Also the interviews state that it is a decision of each chair event though everyone is doing it. There is no indication of a law of nature dependency, as there is no inherent data, resource, or logical dependency preventing the second activity from preceding the first.

What is the relationship between [Submit thesis on Koinon] and [Present thesis in Colloquium]?
To classify the relationship between "Submit thesis on Koinon" and "Present thesis in Colloquium", we check the given process description we have and the regulations. The examination regulations state that the thesis needs to be submitted before it can be presented in the colloquium. This rule is enforced by the university and the Bavarian state ministry to regulate student behavior in the examination process. Thus, we can classify the relationship as a Governmental Law. There is no indication of a law of nature dependency in this relationship.