[Interviewer] So, could you walk me through the overall process of thesis registration and submission at your university?

[Speaker] Ok, at the beginning we have some instructions on our website where we post the topics that we have in our chair. The student normally should submit their motivation letter, an application, a CV to an email address regarding a thesis. The responsible person check if this topic is already taken by one of the students or if we have a capacity, then forward the email to the responsible person. The responsible person check the CV and decide if he has a capacity, for example, and if he would like to set the, let's say, get together first meeting with the student. Normally, from my point of view, this meeting is just to give us as a supervisor an overview and impression about the students. Like how he deals with the get together meeting, if he is taking notes while I'm talking about the topic that I have, how is his personality, if he came, for example, on time. Normally, I do ask questions related to the topic because I would like to have a student who has a background so he can just follow and do the topic properly. If the student managed to answer the questions and if he shows some commitments, came on time, we give him a chance to start writing an exposé. Normally, from my side, after this meeting, if everything going well, I just share with the student some resources just to enrich his knowledge about information about that topic. Then I set a meeting one week after where I explain in details the topic. I do this because I prefer a student to read first about the resources, know more about the topic. Then when I explain what should be done, he can easily follow the topic. After that, students start with writing the exposé. Till now, I have one student who almost finished this phase, which is writing and submitting the exposé. Honestly, from my side, I support the students a lot during writing the exposé because it's a very important phase where students can plan exactly what to do, where to start, what is the plan, what is the objective, and provide a good understanding, for example, to the topic itself. Normally, I ask the student to start writing the exposé. If he or she has any question, he can write an email. Normally, after two weeks, even if he did not ask for a meeting, I ask for a meeting just to follow up the status. Know if the student could manage to do something, if he needs any help, because from our experience, normally the student, I would say, tries to ask questions, or maybe they have a question, but they try to ask for meetings or something like this. After that, the student submits, let's say, the first version of the exposé. We provide our feedback. This process is an iterative process. Till now, with one student, I have a fourth version of the exposé. Till we reach to a position where I feel, yes, all the necessary information is there, that the students have a good understanding where to start, when to start, how to follow. After that, as I know, the Professor should also have a final check on the exposé and provide her approval. After that, the student can register officially for the thesis and start working with the thesis. Honestly, I did not try also, I'm not in the phase where the students already start the thesis, but as I know that there should be meetings with the supervisor, maybe after every two weeks, one hour, something like this, where we can follow up with the progress and so on.

[Interviewer] Okay, and then after they finish writing, the student submits the thesis online? Or how does the submission work?

[Speaker] It could be online, yes. Online. And for the presentation, it depends. Some of the students do the final presentation online and some of them do the presentation on-site. From our side, we prefer the on-site presentation, but sometimes it happens for special circumstances or sometimes because we supervise also students from Garching, so they are not in Heilbronn. That's why we offer the online presentation, let's say.

[Interviewer] Okay, and now we will just maybe go through the phases or the main stages and just ask you a couple of questions about the activities. So, during the process of the topic selection, you mentioned that there are topics on the websites and the student submits the CV and cover letter. Is this a mandatory requirement by the university to do it this way, or is it just how your chair does it?

[Speaker] To be honest, I'm not sure, so I do not know. But from my point of view, if the student has a choice to select among several topics, the student definitely will go with a topic where he or she feels that it's more related to or has more background about. So, I believe it's a good strategy, if you are asking my opinion, because the students have a choice to choose, and if it's related to the university requirement, I have no idea.

[Interviewer] Okay, but usually it's not mandatory for them to check the website. They can just email you about the topics, or is there like an informal way of doing it?

[Speaker] Normally, the student should check the website and select the topics. Otherwise, sometimes the student sends an email in general, I would like to write my thesis at your chair, if there is any spot or any capacity, and then we answer him if we have any spot or capacity.

[Interviewer] Okay, and what role did you play in the approving of the topic, in this case, for the student you have? Did you have any specific role during the refining and the approving of the topic?

[Speaker] Honestly, normally the topics are provided by us, by me, so I have a topic that I would like one of the students to work on it, and as I mentioned, during the get-to-know meeting, I just check the student's requirement, like in a way, to know if he suits well to start working on the topic that I have.

[Interviewer] Okay, and you mentioned a couple of meetings as well, where you have a meeting to get an idea of the student, and then a meeting one week later, if you like the student, to give him resources and so on. Are these mandated by the professor, or is it just how you like to do it?

[Speaker] It's made by me.

[Interviewer] Okay, and do you maybe know if the other supervisors in your chair or in other chairs also do the same meetings, or is it not that common?

[Speaker] I know that there is a get-to-know meeting, but I don't know exactly what's going on during this get-to-know meeting with others, but I know that because we have this common rule about giving priority for students from Heilbronn and Master's students. This is common between us, but I'm not sure how things are going with the get-to-know meeting.

[Interviewer] Okay, then I think we're good for the topic selection phase. For the registration, do you know what the specific steps may be that are involved in the registration of the thesis, or are you not that aware of it?

[Speaker] I know recently that the student should check if they are able to register for the thesis by the student service center. Maybe it's something related to the credit points, if they finish an amount of credit points before they start with the thesis, I know this. And I already informed students, before you start writing even the exposé, just go and double-check your status at the student service center.

[Interviewer] Okay, so they cannot start with the thesis or officially register until they have a specific amount of points?

[Speaker] Yes, I knew this recently, honestly, but I informed all my students that they have to do that before they start with registering the exposé. We did not discuss this, but I think we have a proposal that we let all the students check their status before they start with the exposé. Because in the worst-case scenario, if he spent a lot of time, and we spent a lot of time just preparing the exposé, then we discover that the student is not able to write or to start or to register for the thesis, so it just will be a waste of time. So we have a proposal that everyone just apply to start his or to write his thesis with us, we just ask him to double-check his status, then we can start with the exposé, let's say.

[Interviewer] Okay, and do you know maybe if there is any problems during registration, can the students begin already writing it until they get registered, or do they have to be registered to start writing and start researching?

[Speaker] Honestly, I have no idea.

[Interviewer] Okay, no problem. So do you have maybe any deadlines or time constraints during the registration process? Registration, maybe, as I mentioned... Or during the topic selection as well?

[Speaker] It's not the topic selection, but normally I give the students four weeks after the meeting where I explain the topic to him or her. During these four weeks, they have to provide me with at least the first draft of the exposé, and it should be, let's say, more than 50% were written, otherwise we do reject the exposé and the student's application.

[Interviewer] Okay, and just one more thing to confirm in the topic selection phase, so for the thesis to be officially registered, does the professor need to approve of it, or do you only need to approve of it, the supervisor?

[Speaker] Both.

[Interviewer] Both, okay. So if the professor rejects it, they cannot proceed with the...

[Speaker] Yes, definitely. But normally we have a flexibility, I don't care, but also feedback from the professor is also taken into consideration even with the exposé phase. For example, if the professor sees any points should be added, modified, her notes are taken into consideration, definitely.

[Interviewer] Okay, perfect. And so I know maybe you don't know that much about it because you still are not in that phase, but once the student registers the thesis, do you know maybe the main activities involved with the writing and the research process?

[Speaker] Yeah, yeah, okay, I see. Honestly, because I did not start with this phase yet, but during the previous two months I took a course guiding on how to supervise students and my strategy, but I did not apply yet, but I will apply. Okay. Because I had first a problem, how can I balance between supporting the student and at the same time not doing his work. Okay. Because sometimes you need to balance, you need to support, but it's his responsibility, you cannot do his work. Okay. My strategy is that if two weeks I will give a student one hour where he can ask to support in any topic he would like about how to write, about how to present, about the progress itself, anything he would like. So it's his responsibility, this meeting, to collect and make a priority for the question that he has. If he take this one hour, take the chance to ask, then he will manage to follow and do his thesis. If not, and during this one hour I will give the full support. Any question he asks, I will not say no, it's your task, any question come to his mind about progress, sometimes programming, writing, presentation, it's his time. Yeah. He can ask what he would like to ask, but after this hour, because I have other responsibilities, I have other students, I would not give time. Okay. Maybe my strategy is to support as I can during the exposé, so he knows exactly or have something written with steps, I will start with one, two, three, even the exposé or the proposal could be somehow refined by finding or something like this, but at least it's the base. Okay. But my strategy, as I mentioned, this hour you can ask what you would like to ask, after this hour, definitely I can support, I will not answer any question, but I will not give the full support as I just gave during this one.

[Interviewer] Okay, yeah. And this one hour is more of your strategy, not an established procedure, the department maybe or the chair or the university?

[Speaker] To be honest, during this course, I have asked about how to manage, and this approach was one of the proposals which I liked and I felt it's fair enough. And if the students, for example, ask for one and a half hour, I can give, but at least something fixed and he or she should take the responsibility of managing, working and so on.

[Interviewer] Okay. And do you know maybe then after the student finishes writing the thesis and then submits it, do you know how it is evaluated?

[Speaker] I have no idea how it's evaluated here, but maybe I can answer you from the course I have. Because normally with the thesis, it's not one person who evaluates the thesis, but maybe more than one, especially that we have proper files, so it's not our decision alone. And because me as a supervisor, who is following the students, so sometimes I have, I will be somehow, I will not say biased, but I know how the student is working. And sometimes the students fail to represent their results or work or writing. So the process is to make criteria where we specify exactly how the points should be distributed. For example, in the writing, is the contribution, for example, clear? I will give points for that. I'm planning that I will put a proposal for this criteria, discuss this with the Professor. Once we agree, before we receive the submission from the student in order not to be biased with him, then we will apply this criteria on his proposal.

[Interviewer] Okay. Great. Then can you provide maybe a typical timeline for the entire thesis process from registration and then until the submission and evaluation?

[Speaker] As I know that the students, the bachelor students have, I think, four months to finish their thesis. And recently I knew from Christian that after they submit the thesis, we can ask them for final presentation. So after that, so they have four months to work and write and submit. And after that, we have two months after four months to set up a meeting for final presentation and make a grading and so on. And evaluate the thesis, the writing.

[Interviewer] Okay, so all in all about six months.

[Speaker] Yes.