[Interviewer] Hi, could you please walk me through the overall process, the general steps, of thesis registration and submission at your university? 

[Speaker] Yes, so the reporting of the thesis is carried out in a multi-level system. So the first point is that the students search for topics and do a consultation with the chair or with the professor in person or via email. And then, if the chair agrees about the topic, there will be the registration of the topic for the thesis via the CIT portal, so by the chair. So the chair will register the student via Koinon portal, and after that the student has to confirm the thesis via Koinon too. Then we, the Student Service Center, will receive an email from Koinon in which it is written that a student registered a topic, and that they will need the confirmation from us. So then we will go to Koinon portal to accept the thesis, and from that moment, the student officially has four months time to upload the thesis. After the submission of the thesis, the chair has a maximum of two months' time to correct the thesis. And after that they will, I think, grade the thesis via Koinon portal. What I maybe missed at the beginning is that before the student is registered in Koinon and before talking to the chair, the student service center suggests that they come to our consultation hour, or to write us an email and ask if it's okay to apply for the thesis in Koinon. And the reason for that is that we check if the students have enough credits to be able to finsih the mandatory courses and the thesis in four months. Because the extension of the thesis is not very easy and is not done by us but from the administration. So before coming to that point, we would like to check before. If the student is still missing, I don't know, four mandatory courses, we wouldn't suggest to start with the thesis. If they are just missing one elective, or support elective, or some of them, then we will say of course, it's not a problem. 

[Interviewer] Okay, so then maybe we can discuss the registration and the topic selection process. So what exactly are the regulations that you have to adhere to in this stage before you can register the student, and before you can approve that they begin their thesis?

[Speaker] Yes, so actually the rules is that all of the courses in on the bachelor have to be done, like, have to be finished and have to be passed. And the only things that is remain is the bachelor thesis and colloquium. Okay. That is what is also written in the examination regulations.

[Interviewer] So it is also possible to start writing your thesis before you're officially registered in the system?

[Speaker] Yes. Because we cannot really prove that. Like, if someone want already to start to write the thesis, or to search in for topics, or to talk with the chairs. But officially the process should be that is in these four months you have the time to search the topics, to write the thesis, and to upload the thesis. Okay. But of course you don't have to do it in these four months, we don't have like, a controlling system. You can do it also before, and then upload after you're in Koinon. 

[Interviewer] Okay, perfect, and do you know maybe if the other student services in other schools of the university do it the same way, or is it just something you follow, or a procedure that you established within your place?

[Speaker] So the minimum ECTS are mandated by the University for everyone and all majors, but the suggestion to visit us is established by our department since the major does not have many students. However, other departments may not allow this consultation session

[Interviewer] Great. Okay, so the chair puts the thesis on Koinon, the student and the student services approves it, and then they begin working. And for the research phase, how much time are they officially allowed?

[Speaker] So they have four months' time, like officially, to search for topics and write a thesis and upload the thesis. 

[Interviewer] Okay, and during this phase, does the student services have any part in it, or are you not involved? 

[Speaker] No, we are not involved. 

[Interviewer] Okay, and once the student finishes the thesis, then they would submit it again on Koinon. Do you as the student service center have to approve the submission, or is it only done by the supervisor?

[Speaker] No, we don't have any part in that. 

[Interviewer] Okay, and you said so the supervisor or the chair has a maximum of two months to correct and grade the thesis? 

[Speaker] Maximum two months, yeah. 

[Interviewer] Okay, and do they also do that via Koinon?

[Speaker] I think so, yes.