Examples:
What is the relationship between Scan Ticket and Change Number of Bags?
As indicated in the process description, the number of bags can only be changed if the previous number of bags is known, this can be understood from "Once we have the passenger information we can then handle change requests as we need some form of information to associate the changes". This is a data dependency, which is a law of nature. As for the contextual origin of the process, this would best be categorized as a best practice, as it is the standard procedure in the industry to ask for the passenger information before changing handling any changes. It is not a governmental law, as it is not enforced by any institution, nor is it a business rule, as it is not under the full jurisdiction of the stakeholders.

What is the relationship between Scan Ticket and Weigh Luggage?
The agent says that sometimes they check the weight first, but it is more efficient to check the ticket first, indicating that this is simply what the airline's employees do. This is a best practice, as it is more efficient to check the ticket first. It is not a governmental law, as it is not mandated to be followed by any governmental laws, nor is it a business rule, as it is not a rule that was created by any of the stakeholders. On the other side, this ordering is not due to a law of nature, as you can theoretically weigh the luggage before scanning the ticket, it would just have negative consequences n the flow of the process.

What is the relationship between Change number of bags and Change Seat?
There is no direct relationship between changing the number of bags and changing the seat. This is not a law of nature, as there is no logical or resource dependency between the two activities, they can be easily interchanged. This is not a governmental law, as it is not enforced by any governmental institution. This is not a best practice, as the agent does not specify that it is a procedure that is accepted by the organization's staff or industry-wide to be superior to alternatives. This is not a business rule, as the business did not specify it has to be done exactly this way, rather it is just the way the process is structured.

What is the relationship between Check-in luggage and Load luggage?
The agent says that the luggage is sent to the guys for aircraft loading after the check-in is done. This is a business rule, as the airline wants the check-in to be done before the luggage is loaded. This is not a governmental law, as it is not enforced by any governmental institution. This is not a best practice, as the agent does not specify that it is a procedure that is accepted by the organization's staff or industry-wide to be superior to alternatives. This is also an example of a law of nature, as the luggage needs to be physically next to the aircraft to load it, and it cannot be loaded before the check-in is done.